Add secrets reference (#2125)
sensu/sensu-docs: content/sensu-go/5.17/reference/secrets.md

---
title: "Secrets"
description: "Sensu's secrets management capability allows you to avoid exposing secrets in your Sensu configuration. Read the reference to obtain secrets from one or more external secrets management providers and use sensuctl to manage secrets."
weight: 145
version: "5.17"
product: "Sensu Go"
menu: 
  sensu-go-5.17:
    parent: reference
---

- [Secret specification](#secret-specification)
  - [Top-level attributes](#top-level-attributes) | [Metadata attributes](#metadata-attributes) | [Spec attributes](#spec-attributes)
- [Secret configuration](#secret-configuration)

> - [Secret payload example](#secret-payload-example)

Reviewer: This link is broken for me.

 
## Secret specification

### Top-level attributes

type         | 
-------------|------
description  | Top-level attribute that specifies the resource type. For secrets configuration, the type should always be `Secret`.
required     | Required for secrets configuration in `wrapped-json` or `yaml` format.
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"type": "Secret"{{< /highlight >}}

api_version  | 
-------------|------
description  | Top-level attribute that specifies the Sensu API group and version. For secrets configuration in this version of Sensu, the `api_version` should always be `secrets/v1`.
required     | Required for secrets configuration in `wrapped-json` or `yaml` format.
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"api_version": "secrets/v1"{{< /highlight >}}

metadata     |      |
-------------|------
description  | Top-level scope that contains the secret's `name` and `namespace`.
required     | true
type         | Map of key-value pairs
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}
"metadata": {
  "name": "sensu-ansible-token",
  "namespace": "default"
}
{{< /highlight >}}

spec         | 
-------------|------

> description  | Top-level map that includes secrets configuration [spec attributes][12].

Author: ```suggestion
description  | Top-level map that includes secrets configuration [spec attributes][8].
```

> description  | Top-level map that includes secrets configuration [spec attributes][12].

Reviewer: This link didn't render correctly:
<img width="876" alt="Screen Shot 2020-01-21 at 3 02 26 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10634078/72850906-0e6ff780-3c5f-11ea-9cd8-128b781a2889.png">

Author: Sorry about that -- I forgot to add the link.

required     | Required for secrets configuration in `wrapped-json` or `yaml` format.
type         | Map of key-value pairs
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}
"spec": {
  "id": "ANSIBLE_TOKEN",
  "provider": "ansible_vault"
}
{{< /highlight >}}

### Metadata attributes

name         |      |
-------------|------
description  | The name for the secret that is used internally by Sensu.
required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"name": "sensu-ansible-token"{{< /highlight >}}

namespace    |      |
-------------|------

> description  | Provider name used internally by Sensu.

Reviewer: namespace != provider name

Author: Copy and paste error -- fixing it now, thank you

required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"namespace": "default"{{< /highlight >}}

### Spec attributes

id           | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The identifying key for the provider to retrieve the secret.
required     | true
type         | String
default      | `false`

> example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"id": "ANSIBLE_TOKEN"{{< /highlight >}}

Reviewer: Since the secret example being used is referencing a vault provider, we should use the syntax one would use to retrieve a vault secret.
```suggestion
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"id": "secret/ansible#token"{{< /highlight >}}
```

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl secret list
{{< /highlight >}}

To see a secret's status:

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl secret info SECRET_NAME
{{< /highlight >}}

To delete a secret:

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl secret delete SECRET_NAME
{{< /highlight >}}

## Secret payload examples

A secret resource definition refers to a secrets `id` and a secrets `provider`.
Read the [secrets provider reference][7] for the provider specification.

{{< language-toggle >}}

{{< highlight yml >}}
---
type: Secret
api_version: secrets/v1
metadata:
  name: sensu-ansible-token
  namespace: default
spec:
  id: ANSIBLE_TOKEN
  provider: env
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "type": "Secret",
  "api_version": "secrets/v1",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "sensu-ansible-token",
    "namespace": "default"
  },
  "spec": {
    "id": "ANSIBLE_TOKEN",
    "provider": "env"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

Secrets that target a HashiCorp Vault always have an `id` as shown in the following example:

{{< language-toggle >}}

{{< highlight yml >}}
---
type: Secret
api_version: secrets/v1
metadata:
  name: sensu-ansible-token
  namespace: default
spec:

>   id: ANSIBLE_TOKEN

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  id: secret/website#database
```

  provider: ansible_vault
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "type": "Secret",
  "api_version": "secrets/v1",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "database",
    "namespace": "default"
  },
  "spec": {
    "id": "secret/website#database",
    "provider": "vault"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

Secrets that target a HashiCorp Vault must start with the word `secret`.
In this example, the name of the secret is `website`.
The `website` secret contains a value called `database`, which is the password to our database.

[1]: ../../getting-started/enterprise/
[2]: ../../api/secrets/
[3]: ../../sensuctl/reference/
[4]: ../../sensuctl/reference/#subcommands
[5]: ..//backend/#configuration-via-environment-variables
[6]: ../rbac#default-users

> [7]: ../secret-providers/

Author: ```suggestion
[7]: ../secret-providers/
[8]: #spec-attributes
```

---
title: "Secrets"
linkTitle: "Secrets"
description: "Sensu's secrets management capability allows you to avoid exposing secrets in your Sensu configuration. Read the reference to obtain secrets from one or more external secrets management providers and use sensuctl to manage secrets."
weight: 145
version: "5.17"
product: "Sensu Go"
menu: 
  sensu-go-5.17:
    parent: reference
---

- [Secret specification](#secret-specification)
  - [Top-level attributes](#top-level-attributes) | [Metadata attributes](#metadata-attributes) | [Spec attributes](#spec-attributes)
- [Secret configuration](#secret-configuration)
- [Secret examples](#secret-examples)

**COMMERCIAL FEATURE**: Access the Secret datatype in the packaged Sensu Go distribution.
For more information, see [Get started with commercial features][1].

Sensu's secrets management eliminates the need to expose secrets in your Sensu configuration.

> When a Sensu resource definition requires a secret (e.g. a username or password), Sensu allows you to obtain secrets from one or more external secrets providers, refer to external secrets, and consume secrets via backend [environment variables][5].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a Sensu resource definition requires a secret (e.g. a username or password), Sensu allows you to obtain secrets from one or more external secrets providers, so you can both refer to external secrets and consume secrets via backend [environment variables][5].
```

type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"type": "Secret"{{< /highlight >}}

api_version  | 
-------------|------
description  | Top-level attribute that specifies the Sensu API group and version. For secrets configuration in this version of Sensu, the `api_version` should always be `secrets/v1`.
required     | Required for secrets configuration in `wrapped-json` or `yaml` format.
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"api_version": "secrets/v1"{{< /highlight >}}

metadata     |      |
-------------|------
description  | Top-level scope that contains the secret's `name` and `namespace`.
required     | true
type         | Map of key-value pairs
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}
"metadata": {
  "name": "sensu-ansible-token",
  "namespace": "default"
}
{{< /highlight >}}

spec         | 
-------------|------
description  | Top-level map that includes secrets configuration [spec attributes][8].
required     | Required for secrets configuration in `wrapped-json` or `yaml` format.
type         | Map of key-value pairs
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}
"spec": {
  "id": "ANSIBLE_TOKEN",

>   "provider": "ansible_vault"

Author: ```suggestion
  "provider": "env"
```

> }

Reviewer: The id syntax should be consistent with the provider for this example. If the provider is a vault provider, the id should look like `secret/ansible#token` and if the provider is an env provider, then the id should look like `ANSIBLE_TOKEN`.

### Metadata attributes

name         |      |
-------------|------
description  | The name for the secret that is used internally by Sensu.
required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"name": "sensu-ansible-token"{{< /highlight >}}

namespace    |      |
-------------|------

> description  | Provider name used internally by Sensu.

Author: ```suggestion
description  | [Sensu RBAC namespace][9] that the secret belongs to.
--

.
```

To list all secrets:

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl secret list
{{< /highlight >}}

To see a secret's status:

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl secret info SECRET_NAME
{{< /highlight >}}

To delete a secret:

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl secret delete SECRET_NAME
{{< /highlight >}}

## Secret examples

A secret resource definition refers to a secrets `id` and a secrets `provider`.
Read the [secrets provider reference][7] for the provider specification.

{{< language-toggle >}}

{{< highlight yml >}}
---
type: Secret
api_version: secrets/v1
metadata:
  name: sensu-ansible-token
  namespace: default
spec:
  id: ANSIBLE_TOKEN
  provider: env
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "type": "Secret",
  "api_version": "secrets/v1",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "sensu-ansible-token",
    "namespace": "default"
  },
  "spec": {
    "id": "ANSIBLE_TOKEN",
    "provider": "env"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

Secrets that target a HashiCorp Vault always have an `id` as shown in the following example:

{{< language-toggle >}}

{{< highlight yml >}}
---
type: Secret
api_version: secrets/v1
metadata:

>   name: sensu-ansible-token

Author: ```suggestion
  name: sensu-ansible
```

  namespace: default
spec:

>   id: 'secret/website#database'

Author: ```suggestion
  id: 'secret/database#password'
```

  provider: ansible_vault
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "type": "Secret",
  "api_version": "secrets/v1",
  "metadata": {

>     "name": "database",

Author: ```suggestion
    "name": "sensu-ansible",
```

    "namespace": "default"
  },
  "spec": {

>     "id": "secret/website#database",

Author: ```suggestion
    "id": "secret/database#password",
```

    "provider": "vault"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

> Secrets that target a HashiCorp Vault must start with the word `secret`.

Reviewer: I'm not sure this is true, I thought this depends on the keyspace that a Vault operator stores their secrets in. @echlebek @palourde wdyt?

Reviewer 3: You're right. From [Vault docs](https://www.vaultproject.io/api-docs/secret/kv/kv-v2/):

> This documentation assumes the kv secrets engine is enabled at the /secret path in Vault. Since it is possible to enable secrets engines at any location, please update your API calls accordingly.

Author: I started to change it below, but Eric mentioned it when we were working on the guide earlier. Here's what the guide says:

"For secrets that target a HashiCorp Vault, the `id` must start with the word `secret/`."

Is that incorrect?

Reviewer 4: Let me elaborate.

The path can be arbitrary, like the vault documentation says. The thing is, the `secret` keyspace is already set up with policies, at least in the dev server, and I would imagine the production Vault server as well.

For that reason I'd like to steer users towards using this structure. Users that know better can use a different id scheme, and users that don't understand vault won't get tripped up in needing to do additional work.

Perhaps we need to tweak the language to capture this nuance rather than just saying "it must be so"?

Author: @echlebek Thank you for clarifying.

I suggest changing: "Secrets that target a HashiCorp Vault must start with the word `secret`."

To:
"The `id` value for secrets that target a HashiCorp Vault must start with the name of the secret's path in Vault.
The [Vault dev server][10] is preconfigured with the `secret` keyspace already set up.
This is convenient for learning and getting started with Vault secrets management, so this example and our guide to [Secrets management with HashiCorp Vault][11] use the `secret/` path for the `id` value."

Author: Thank you!

> In this example, the name of the secret is `website`.

Author: ```suggestion
In this example, the name of the secret is `database`.
```

> The `website` secret contains a value called `database`, which is the password to our database.

Reviewer: This example might make more sense if the secret was `secret/database#password`, because due to the Vault API, you can store multiple fields in a keyspace such as `secret/database#url` and `secret/database#username` for example.

> The `website` secret contains a value called `database`, which is the password to our database.

Author: ```suggestion
The `database` secret contains a value called `password`, which is the password to our database.
```

The `website` secret contains a value called `database`, which is the password to our database.

[1]: ../../getting-started/enterprise/
[2]: ../../api/secrets/
[3]: ../../sensuctl/reference/
[4]: ../../sensuctl/reference/#subcommands
[5]: ..//backend/#configuration-via-environment-variables
[6]: ../rbac#default-users
[7]: ../secret-providers/

> [8]: #spec-attributes

Author: ```suggestion
[8]: #spec-attributes
[9]: ../../reference/rbac/#namespaces
```

> [7]: ../secret-providers/

Author: ```suggestion
[7]: ../secrets-providers/
```

> [9]: ../../reference/rbac/#namespaces

Author: ```suggestion
[9]: ../../reference/rbac/#namespaces
[10]: https://learn.hashicorp.com/vault/getting-started/dev-server
[11]: ../../guides/secrets-management-vault/
```

Read the [secrets provider reference][7] for the provider specification.

{{< language-toggle >}}

{{< highlight yml >}}
---
type: Secret
api_version: secrets/v1
metadata:
  name: sensu-ansible-token
  namespace: default
spec:
  id: ANSIBLE_TOKEN
  provider: env
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "type": "Secret",
  "api_version": "secrets/v1",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "sensu-ansible-token",
    "namespace": "default"
  },
  "spec": {
    "id": "ANSIBLE_TOKEN",
    "provider": "env"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

Secrets that target a HashiCorp Vault always have an `id` as shown in the following example:

{{< language-toggle >}}

{{< highlight yml >}}
---
type: Secret
api_version: secrets/v1
metadata:
  name: sensu-ansible
  namespace: default
spec:
  id: 'secret/database#password'
  provider: ansible_vault
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "type": "Secret",
  "api_version": "secrets/v1",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "sensu-ansible",
    "namespace": "default"
  },
  "spec": {
    "id": "secret/database#password",
    "provider": "vault"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

> Secrets that target a HashiCorp Vault must start with the word `secret`.

Author: ```suggestion
The id value for secrets that target a HashiCorp Vault must start with the name of the secret's path in Vault.
The [Vault dev server][10] is preconfigured with the secret keyspace already set up.
This is convenient for learning and getting started with Vault secrets management, so this example and our guide to [Secrets management][11] use the secret/ path for the id value.
```

---
title: "Secrets"
linkTitle: "Secrets"

> description: "Sensu's secrets management capability allows you to avoid exposing secrets in your Sensu configuration. Read the reference to obtain secrets from one or more external secrets management providers and use sensuctl to manage secrets."

Author: ```suggestion
description: "Sensu's secrets management feature allows you to avoid exposing secrets like usernames, passwords, and access keys in your Sensu configuration. Read the reference to obtain secrets from one or more external secrets providers and use sensuctl to manage secrets."
```

weight: 145
version: "5.17"
product: "Sensu Go"
menu: 
  sensu-go-5.17:
    parent: reference
---

- [Secret specification](#secret-specification)
  - [Top-level attributes](#top-level-attributes) | [Metadata attributes](#metadata-attributes) | [Spec attributes](#spec-attributes)
- [Secret configuration](#secret-configuration)
- [Secret examples](#secret-examples)

**COMMERCIAL FEATURE**: Access the Secret datatype in the packaged Sensu Go distribution.
For more information, see [Get started with commercial features][1].

Sensu's secrets management eliminates the need to expose secrets in your Sensu configuration.

> When a Sensu resource definition requires a secret (e.g. a username or password), Sensu allows you to obtain secrets from one or more external secrets providers, so you can both refer to external secrets and consume secrets via backend [environment variables][5].

Author: ```suggestion
When a Sensu resource definition requires a secret (e.g. a username or password), Sensu allows you to obtain secrets from one or more external secrets providers, so you can both refer to external secrets and consume secrets via [backend environment variables][5].
```

> Only Sensu backends have access to request secrets from a [secret provider][7].

Author: ```suggestion
Only Sensu backends have access to request secrets from a [secrets provider][7].
```

Sensu backends cache fetched secrets in memory, with no persistence to a Sensu datastore or file on disk.
Secrets provided via a "lease" with a "lease duration" are deleted from Sensu's in-memory cache after the configured number of seconds, prompting the Sensu backend to request the secret again.

Secrets are only transmitted over a TLS websocket connection.
Unencrypted connections must not transmit privileged information.
For agent-side resources, enable TLS/mTLS.

> Secrets are only exposed to Sensu services like environment variables and are automatically redacted from all logs, the API, and the Sensu dashboard.

Author: ```suggestion
Sensu only exposes secrets to Sensu services like environment variables and automatically redacts secrets from all logs, the API, and the dashboard.
```

 
## Secret specification

### Top-level attributes

type         | 
-------------|------
description  | Top-level attribute that specifies the resource type. For secrets configuration, the type should always be `Secret`.
required     | Required for secrets configuration in `wrapped-json` or `yaml` format.
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"type": "Secret"{{< /highlight >}}

api_version  | 
-------------|------

> description  | Top-level attribute that specifies the Sensu API group and version. For secrets configuration in this version of Sensu, the `api_version` should always be `secrets/v1`.

Author: ```suggestion
description  | Top-level attribute that specifies the Sensu API group and version. For secrets configuration in this version of Sensu, the api_version should always be `secrets/v1`.
```

required     | Required for secrets configuration in `wrapped-json` or `yaml` format.
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"api_version": "secrets/v1"{{< /highlight >}}

metadata     |      |
-------------|------
description  | Top-level scope that contains the secret's `name` and `namespace`.
required     | true
type         | Map of key-value pairs
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}
"metadata": {
  "name": "sensu-ansible-token",
  "namespace": "default"
}
{{< /highlight >}}

spec         | 
-------------|------
description  | Top-level map that includes secrets configuration [spec attributes][8].
required     | Required for secrets configuration in `wrapped-json` or `yaml` format.
type         | Map of key-value pairs
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}
"spec": {

>   "id": "ANSIBLE_TOKEN",

Author: Would this actually need to be `SENSU_ANSIBLE_TOKEN` to follow config instructions at https://docs.sensu.io/sensu-go/5.17/reference/backend/#configuration-via-environment-variables?

Reviewer: No, the `SENSU_` prefix is only needed for environment variables that are used as backend configuration options, ex. `SENSU_API_LISTEN_ADDRESS=192.168.100.20:8080` instead of `--api-listen-address 192.168.100.20:8080`.

  "provider": "env"
}
{{< /highlight >}}

### Metadata attributes

name         |      |
-------------|------

> description  | The name for the secret that is used internally by Sensu.

Author: ```suggestion
description  | Name for the secret that is used internally by Sensu.
```

required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"name": "sensu-ansible-token"{{< /highlight >}}

namespace    |      |
-------------|------
description  | [Sensu RBAC namespace][9] that the secret belongs to.
required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"namespace": "default"{{< /highlight >}}

### Spec attributes

id           | 
-------------|------ 

> description  | The identifying key for the provider to retrieve the secret.

Author: ```suggestion
description  | Identifying key for the provider to retrieve the secret.
```

required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"id": "secret/ansible#token"{{< /highlight >}}

provider     | 
-------------|------ 

> description  | The name of the Sensu provider with the secret.

Author: ```suggestion
description  | Name of the provider with the secret.
```

required     | true
type         | String

> example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"provider": "ansible_vault"{{< /highlight >}}

Author: ```suggestion
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"provider": "vault"{{< /highlight >}}
```

## Secret configuration

> Use the [Secrets API][2] and [sensuctl][3] to create, view, and manage your secrets configuration.

Author: ```suggestion
You can use the [Secrets API][2] and [sensuctl][3] to create, view, and manage your secrets configuration.
```

To manage secrets configuration with sensuctl, configure sensuctl as the default [`admin` user][6].

The [standard sensuctl subcommands][4] are available for secrets (list, info, and delete).

To list all secrets:

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl secret list
{{< /highlight >}}

To see a secret's status:

{{< highlight shell >}}

> sensuctl secret info SECRET_NAME

Author: Is this SECRET_NAME the metadata.name from the Secret setup?

Reviewer: Yup!

Reviewer 4: Yes

{{< /highlight >}}

To delete a secret:

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl secret delete SECRET_NAME
{{< /highlight >}}

> 

Author: ```suggestion

`SECRET_NAME` is the value specified in the secret's `name` [metadata attribute][12].
```

## Secret examples

A secret resource definition refers to a secrets `id` and a secrets `provider`.
Read the [secrets provider reference][7] for the provider specification.

{{< language-toggle >}}

{{< highlight yml >}}
---
type: Secret
api_version: secrets/v1
metadata:
  name: sensu-ansible-token
  namespace: default
spec:
  id: ANSIBLE_TOKEN
  provider: env
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "type": "Secret",
  "api_version": "secrets/v1",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "sensu-ansible-token",
    "namespace": "default"
  },
  "spec": {
    "id": "ANSIBLE_TOKEN",
    "provider": "env"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

> Secrets that target a HashiCorp Vault are configured as shown in the following example:

Author: ```suggestion
Configure secrets that target a HashiCorp Vault as shown in the following example:
```

> Secrets that target a HashiCorp Vault always have an `id` as shown in the following example:

Author: ```suggestion
Secrets that target a HashiCorp Vault are configured as shown in the following example:
```

{{< language-toggle >}}

{{< highlight yml >}}
---
type: Secret
api_version: secrets/v1
metadata:
  name: sensu-ansible
  namespace: default
spec:
  id: 'secret/database#password'

>   provider: ansible_vault

Author: ```suggestion
  provider: vault
```

{{< /highlight >}}

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "type": "Secret",
  "api_version": "secrets/v1",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "sensu-ansible",
    "namespace": "default"
  },
  "spec": {
    "id": "secret/database#password",
    "provider": "vault"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

> The id value for secrets that target a HashiCorp Vault must start with the name of the secret's path in Vault.

Author: ```suggestion
The `id` value for secrets that target a HashiCorp Vault must start with the name of the secret's path in Vault.
```

> The [Vault dev server][10] is preconfigured with the secret keyspace already set up.

Author: ```suggestion
The [Vault dev server][10] is preconfigured with the `secret` keyspace already set up.
```

> This is convenient for learning and getting started with Vault secrets management, so this example and our guide to [Secrets management][11] use the secret/ path for the id value.

Author: ```suggestion
This is convenient for learning and getting started with Vault secrets management, so this example and our guide to [Secrets management][11] use the `secret/` path for the `id` value.
```

In this example, the name of the secret is `database`.
The `database` secret contains a value called `password`, which is the password to our database.

[1]: ../../getting-started/enterprise/
[2]: ../../api/secrets/
[3]: ../../sensuctl/reference/
[4]: ../../sensuctl/reference/#subcommands
[5]: ../backend/#configuration-via-environment-variables
[6]: ../rbac#default-users
[7]: ../secrets-providers/
[8]: #spec-attributes
[9]: ../../reference/rbac/#namespaces
[10]: https://learn.hashicorp.com/vault/getting-started/dev-server

> [11]: ../../guides/secrets-management/

Author: ```suggestion
[11]: ../../guides/secrets-management/
[12]: #metadata-attributes
```

> [11]: ../../guides/secrets-management-vault/

Author: ```suggestion
[11]: ../../guides/secrets-management/
```

---

> title: "Secrets"

Author: ```suggestion
title: "Secrets"
linkTitle: "Secrets"
```

description: "Sensu's secrets management capability allows you to avoid exposing secrets in your Sensu configuration. Read the reference to obtain secrets from one or more external secrets management providers and use sensuctl to manage secrets."
weight: 145
version: "5.17"
product: "Sensu Go"
menu: 
  sensu-go-5.17:
    parent: reference
---

- [Secret specification](#secret-specification)
  - [Top-level attributes](#top-level-attributes) | [Metadata attributes](#metadata-attributes) | [Spec attributes](#spec-attributes)
- [Secret configuration](#secret-configuration)
- [Secret examples](#secret-examples)

**COMMERCIAL FEATURE**: Access the Secret datatype in the packaged Sensu Go distribution.
For more information, see [Get started with commercial features][1].

Sensu's secrets management eliminates the need to expose secrets in your Sensu configuration.

> Use secrets to obtain secrets from one or more external secrets management providers, refer to external secrets, and comsume secrets via backend [environment variables][5].

Author: ```suggestion
Use secrets to obtain secrets from one or more external secrets management providers, refer to external secrets, and consume secrets via backend [environment variables][5].
```

  "api_version": "secrets/v1",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "sensu-ansible-token",
    "namespace": "default"
  },
  "spec": {
    "id": "ANSIBLE_TOKEN",
    "provider": "env"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

Secrets that target a HashiCorp Vault always have an `id` as shown in the following example:

{{< language-toggle >}}

{{< highlight yml >}}
---
type: Secret
api_version: secrets/v1
metadata:
  name: sensu-ansible-token
  namespace: default
spec:
  id: secret/website#database
  provider: ansible_vault
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "type": "Secret",
  "api_version": "secrets/v1",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "database",
    "namespace": "default"
  },
  "spec": {
    "id": "secret/website#database",
    "provider": "vault"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

Secrets that target a HashiCorp Vault must start with the word `secret`.
In this example, the name of the secret is `website`.
The `website` secret contains a value called `database`, which is the password to our database.

[1]: ../../getting-started/enterprise/
[2]: ../../api/secrets/
[3]: ../../sensuctl/reference/
[4]: ../../sensuctl/reference/#subcommands

> [5]: ..//backend/#configuration-via-environment-variables

Author: ```suggestion
[5]: ../backend/#configuration-via-environment-variables
```

---
title: "Secrets"
linkTitle: "Secrets"
description: "Sensu's secrets management capability allows you to avoid exposing secrets in your Sensu configuration. Read the reference to obtain secrets from one or more external secrets management providers and use sensuctl to manage secrets."
weight: 145
version: "5.17"
product: "Sensu Go"
menu: 
  sensu-go-5.17:
    parent: reference
---

- [Secret specification](#secret-specification)
  - [Top-level attributes](#top-level-attributes) | [Metadata attributes](#metadata-attributes) | [Spec attributes](#spec-attributes)
- [Secret configuration](#secret-configuration)
- [Secret examples](#secret-examples)

**COMMERCIAL FEATURE**: Access the Secret datatype in the packaged Sensu Go distribution.
For more information, see [Get started with commercial features][1].

Sensu's secrets management eliminates the need to expose secrets in your Sensu configuration.

> Use secrets to obtain secrets from one or more external secrets management providers, refer to external secrets, and consume secrets via backend [environment variables][5].

Author: ```suggestion
When a Sensu resource definition requires a secret (e.g. a username or password), Sensu allows you to obtain secrets from one or more external secrets providers, refer to external secrets, and consume secrets via backend [environment variables][5].
```

type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"api_version": "secrets/v1"{{< /highlight >}}

metadata     |      |
-------------|------
description  | Top-level scope that contains the secret's `name` and `namespace`.
required     | true
type         | Map of key-value pairs
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}
"metadata": {
  "name": "sensu-ansible-token",
  "namespace": "default"
}
{{< /highlight >}}

spec         | 
-------------|------
description  | Top-level map that includes secrets configuration [spec attributes][8].
required     | Required for secrets configuration in `wrapped-json` or `yaml` format.
type         | Map of key-value pairs
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}
"spec": {
  "id": "ANSIBLE_TOKEN",
  "provider": "ansible_vault"
}
{{< /highlight >}}

### Metadata attributes

name         |      |
-------------|------
description  | The name for the secret that is used internally by Sensu.
required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"name": "sensu-ansible-token"{{< /highlight >}}

namespace    |      |
-------------|------
description  | [Sensu RBAC namespace][9] that the secret belongs to.

> --

Author: ```suggestion
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> .

Author: ```suggestion
```

required     | true
type         | String

> example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"namespace": "default"{{< /highlight >}}

Reviewer: Another weird render:
<img width="905" alt="Screen Shot 2020-01-22 at 9 57 43 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10634078/72920194-ac1a0400-3cfd-11ea-8865-f03f7f9ecc77.png">

Author: Wow, messy! I don't know how I did that -- fixing now. Thank you!

### Spec attributes

id           | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The identifying key for the provider to retrieve the secret.
required     | true
type         | String

> default      | `false`

Reviewer: No default.

> default      | `false`

Author: ```suggestion
```

example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"id": "secret/ansible#token"{{< /highlight >}}

provider     | 
-------------|------ 

> description  | The name of the provider with the secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description  | The name of the Sensu provider with the secret.
```

required     | true
type         | String

> default      | `false`

Reviewer: No default.

> default      | `false`

Author: ```suggestion
```

The [standard sensuctl subcommands][4] are available for secrets (list, info, and delete).

To list all secrets:

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl secret list
{{< /highlight >}}

To see a secret's status:

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl secret info SECRET_NAME
{{< /highlight >}}

To delete a secret:

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl secret delete SECRET_NAME
{{< /highlight >}}

`SECRET_NAME` is the value specified in the secret's `name` [metadata attribute][12].

> ## Secret examples

Author: ```suggestion

## Secret examples
```

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl secret delete SECRET_NAME
{{< /highlight >}}

## Secret examples

A secret resource definition refers to a secrets `id` and a secrets `provider`.
Read the [secrets provider reference][7] for the provider specification.

{{< language-toggle >}}

{{< highlight yml >}}
---
type: Secret
api_version: secrets/v1
metadata:
  name: sensu-ansible-token
  namespace: default
spec:
  id: ANSIBLE_TOKEN
  provider: env
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "type": "Secret",
  "api_version": "secrets/v1",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "sensu-ansible-token",
    "namespace": "default"
  },
  "spec": {
    "id": "ANSIBLE_TOKEN",
    "provider": "env"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

Secrets that target a HashiCorp Vault always have an `id` as shown in the following example:

{{< language-toggle >}}

{{< highlight yml >}}
---
type: Secret
api_version: secrets/v1
metadata:
  name: sensu-ansible-token
  namespace: default
spec:

>   id: secret/website#database

Reviewer: YML thinks this is a comment. Does surrounding the line with single quotes resolve this?
```suggestion
  id: 'secret/website#database'
```

<img width="319" alt="Screen Shot 2020-01-22 at 10 01 00 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10634078/72920439-2054a780-3cfe-11ea-8712-347709873672.png">

Author: Yes, that fixes it:
![yml-update](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19190208/72925076-15127380-3d20-11ea-814a-a19b06c9c400.png)
